###############################################################################
#A GUIDED TOUR OF EMACS
#######################
The GNU Emacs Manual calls Emacs the extensible, customizable, self-documenting
real-time display editor, but this description tells beginners little about what
Emacs is capable of.

Beyond just being able to edit plain text files, Emacs includes special features
to help you write in many different human languages and programming/markup
languages, as well as tools for compiling, running, and testing programs. Emacs
integrates with GDB to provide an IDE (M-x gdb). Emacs can compare two files and 
highlight their differences (M-x ediff). You might see now why some people 
consider Emacs to be not merely a text editor but almost a complete operating 
system. Some users find that they can do almost all of their work from 
within Emacs.

###############################################################################
# WHY EMACS?
############
Emacs helps you be productive by providing an integrated environment for many 
different kinds of tasks:

    -All of the basic editing commands (and there are lots of them) are 
     available no matter what you're trying to do: write code, read a manual, 
     use a shell, or compose an email.
    -All the tools Emacs provides for opening, saving, searching, and processing
     text (and more) are available to you no matter what you're doing.

This uniformity means that working within Emacs is often easier than learning to
use a separate program, especially when that program is liable to have its own 
set of editing capabilities and shortcuts.

If Emacs doesn't work the way you'd like, you can use the Emacs Lisp (Elisp) 
language to customize Emacs, automate common tasks, or add new features. Elisp 
is very easy to get started with and yet remarkably powerful: you can use it to 
alter and extend almost any feature of Emacs. You can make Emacs whatever you 
want it to be by writing Elisp code; one testament to this is the fact that all 
of the features pictured above (and many more described later in this tour) are 
written in Elisp.

Emacs is also portable. You can use the same editor (with the same 
configuration) on many platforms, including GNU/Linux, BSD and other Unix 
derivatives, and some proprietary operating systems such as Microsoft Windows.
