################################################################################
# WHAT IS GNU NANO?
###################

GNU nano was designed to be a free replacement for the Pico text editor, part of
the Pine email suite from The University of Washington. It aimed to "emulate 
Pico as closely as is reasonable and then include extra functionality".

################################################################################
# WHAT IS THE HISTORY BEHIND NANO?
##################################

Funny you should ask!
In the beginning...

For years Pine was THE program used to read email on a Unix system. The Pico 
text editor is the portion of the program one would use to compose his or her 
mail messages. Many beginners to Unix flocked to Pico and Pine because of their 
well organized, easy to use interfaces. With the proliferation of GNU/Linux in 
the mid to late 90's, many University students became intimately familiar with 
the strengths (and weaknesses) of Pine and Pico.

...Then came Debian...

The Debian GNU/Linux distribution, known for its strict standards in 
distributing truly "free" software (i.e. software with no restrictions on 
redistribution), would not include a binary package for Pine or Pico. Many 
people had a serious dilemma: they loved these programs, but the versions 
available at the time were not truly free software in the GNU sense of the word.

...The event...

It was in late 1999 when Chris Allegretta (our hero) was yet again complaining 
to himself about the less-than-perfect license Pico was distributed under, the 
1000 makefiles that came with it and how just a few small improvements could 
make it the Best Editor in the World (TM). Having been a convert from Slackware 
to Debian, he missed having a simple binary package that included Pine and Pico, 
and had grown tired of downloading them himself.

Finally something snapped inside and Chris coded and hacked like a madman for 
many hours straight one weekend to make a (barely usable) Pico clone, at the 
time called TIP (Tip Isn't Pico). The program could not be invoked without a 
filename, could not save files, had no help text display, spell checker, and so 
forth. But over time it improved, and with the help of a few great coders it 
matured to the (hopefully) stable state it is in today.

In February 2001, nano was declared an official GNU program by Richard Stallman. 
nano also reached its first production release on March 22, 2001.
