###############################################################################
# GNU COMPILER COLLECTION
#########################

The GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) is a compiler system produced by the GNU 
Project supporting various programming languages. GCC is a key component of the 
GNU toolchain and the standard compiler for most projects related to GNU and 
Linux, including the Linux kernel. The Free Software Foundation (FSF) 
distributes GCC under the GNU General Public License (GNU GPL). GCC has played 
an important role in the growth of free software, as both a tool and an 
example.

When it was first released in 1987, GCC 1.0 was named the GNU C Compiler since 
it only handled the C programming language. It was extended to compile C++ in 
December of that year. Front ends were later developed for Objective-C, 
Objective-C++, Fortran, Java, Ada, and Go, among others.

Version 4.5 of the OpenMP specification is now supported in the C and C++ 
compilers and a "much improved" implementation of the OpenACC 2.0a specification 
is also supported. By default, the current version supports gnu++14, a superset 
of C++14, and gnu11, a superset of C11, with strict standard support also 
available. It also provides experimental support for C++17 and later.

GCC has been ported to a wide variety of instruction set architectures, and is 
widely deployed as a tool in the development of both free and proprietary 
software. GCC is also available for most embedded systems, including ARM-based; 
AMCC, and Freescale Power ISA-based chips. The compiler can target a wide 
variety of platforms.

As well as being the official compiler of the GNU operating system, GCC has been 
adopted as the standard compiler by many other modern Unix-like computer 
operating systems, including Linux and the BSD family, although FreeBSD and 
macOS have moved to the LLVM system. Versions are also available for Microsoft 
Windows and other operating systems; GCC can compile code for Android and iOS.

As of 2018, GCC is not able to produce reproducible builds, but patches are 
available and waiting to be merged.
